---
categories: []
date: 2023-10-02
description: ""
draft: false
tags: []
title: Governance Group minutes 2023-10-02
topics: []
---

## Monday 02 October 2023

**Attendees:** Nicola Dowson (ND), Michael Eadie (ME), Beverley Jones (BJ), Petr Knoth (PK), George Macgregor (GM - chair), Agustina Martínez-García (AMG), Paul Walk (PW)

### Welcome

New member of the RGG, AMG, was welcomed and introductions performed. GM noted that it will be helpful for the RGG to have fresh perspectives on the evolution of Rioxx.

### Adjustments to v 3.0, Draft 2

GM reported on the background to recent adjustments to Draft 2, arising from liaison with Herbert Van de Sompel (HVS). GM confirmed that the principal purpose of the meeting was to approve (or not) these adjustments.

HVS provided useful feedback by email on Draft 2 to PK, PW and GM, and made proposals for how aspects of Rioxx could be potentially improved. A more detailed, physical meeting later took place between PK and HVS, at which these proposals were explored fully. Substantive proposals emerging from all of this activity include:

1. Re-introduction of `dc:type`
2. Re-introduction of `dc:relation` over `rioxxterms:file`
3. Creation of `rioxxterms:ext_relation` over `rioxxterms:relation`
4. Adjustments to content of `dc:identifier`, i.e. ***not*** a PID

GM noted that he and PK had met to discuss the proposals further. PK drafted [an example of a Rioxx record with the proposals implemented](https://github.com/geo-mac/Rioxx-development/blob/development/model/rioxx-schema-examples-september.md).

### Use of typed links & introduction of rioxxterms:ext_relation

PK explained the rationale for adopting typed links and that anything in `dc:relation` and `rioxxterms:ext_relation` should become a typed link. He noted that in the example the use of `cite-as` in this Rioxx context denoted that the target URI was the resource (i.e. that the DOI was the resource), making the use of `cite-as` appropriate. After discussion, and referral to technical specifications of Signposting and RFC8288, consensus emerged that this approach made sense but that guidance on the Signposting website perhaps required modification. It was also noted that, if adopted in Rioxx v 3.0, schema documentation would need to be very clear to avoid its misapplication by repositories.

The GB agreed that the introduction of `rioxxterms:ext_relation` was something that required further consideration, to fully understand its consequences. After discussion it was agreed that better delineating the concept of 'external relations' -- and testing of the notion of custodianship -- was required before implementing the schema change.

- **Action**: PW to create shared Google Doc in which PK can articulate the `rioxxterms:ext_relation` use case, e.g. how does it serve the requirements of aggregators and how does it serve repositories? RGG members to engage with Doc to arrive at shared understanding of the problem and implementing an appropriate solution.
- **Action**: PK to update example Rioxx record accordingly and share with RGG, thereby enabling PW to update schema documentation on the GitHub development branch.

### AOB

No substantive business was raised.

### DNOM

To be confirmed.

GM 03/10/2023
